= crunchbase

Library for pulling data from the CrunchBase API.

== Dependencies

The Crunchbase API is entirely JSON-based. By default, if present, the gem will
use the {YAJL gem}[http://github.com/brianmario/yajl-ruby]; if not, it will
fall back to the {JSON gem}[http://flori.github.com/json/]. Please ensure one
of the two is installed.

You will need to get an API key from {Crunchbase}[http://developer.crunchbase.com/]

== Usage

If you already know the permalink for a given entity, you can grab the entry
with the +get+ method.

   require 'crunchbase'
   Crunchbase::API.key = 'your crunchbase api key'
   steve = Crunchbase::Person.get("steve-jobs")
   facebook = Crunchbase::Company.get("facebook")    
   
If you know the name of the entity but not the permalink, you can use the
+find+ method.

    steve = Crunchbase::Person.find("Steve", "Jobs")
    github = Crunchbase::Company.find("Github")

Note that finding using a name performs two HTTP requests internally, the first
returning the permalink associated with the name, and the second which returns
the actual data.

=== Search

Searching the Crunchbase is possible with the Search class.

   s = Crunchbase::Search.find("widgets")

You can also search by location using the Location class. Searches can be by city,
state, zip, country-code, etc.

   l = Crunchbase::Location.geo("San Francisco")

You can access the search results by treating the returned Search instance as
an array.

   first_result = s[0]
   s.each { |result| puts result.name }
  
The Search will return a list consisting of objects of the SearchResult type. To
access the full entity object, call the +entity+ method of the SearchResult.

While Search does include the Enumerable module, it does not implement all of 
the methods of Array. If you need to treat the results as an array in a way not
supported, you can call +to_ary+; this prefetches all result pages (if they have
not already been loaded), so it may entail a slight delay, depending on the
number of results.

   all_results = s.to_ary

=== List all Items

If you've gone insane and want a list of every single item for a given entity
type, you can do so with the +all+ method.

    all_companies = Company.all
    company = all_companies[105]
    
This returns an array containing objects representing each entity. Just like 
Search, the full item can be grabbed with the +entity+ method. Unlike Search,
however, all of the result objects are fetched at once, so iterating through the 
list does not entail a delay every ten items. Of course, the list is enormous
(the list of all companies returns over 84,500 entries as of this writing), so 
it's little consolation.

== Contributing

Contributions are welcome. Note that in order to run the test suite, you need to
include an API key in +spec/apikey.yml+. This file is ignored by git. An example
file is provided for convenience.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2011-12 Tyler Cunnion. This software is made available under the 
MIT/X11 license. See LICENSE.txt for further details.

I am not affiliated in any way with AOL, TechCrunch, Crunchbase, or anyone
really.
